---
layout: post
title: RTD
tags: technical
date: 2017-08-05
---

RTD - Read the Docs. That phrase cuts across industries - I have heard it just as much as a programmer as I did as an investment banker. And while when said verbally, RTD (sometimes RTFD) usually lands with a hint of annoyance, I really believe it's some of the most important career advice I have ever received.

I recently was writing some unit tests to check that a small wrapper around the [AWS.SES API](https://aws.amazon.com/documentation/ses/) was invoked correctly and logging error messages as expected. Using [`sinon`](https://github.com/sinonjs/sinon) and the [`aws-sdk-mock`](https://github.com/dwyl/aws-sdk-mock) library, I had some code that looked like the below to check error handling:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/BenBrostoff/1cba16104882f0c73609ff105ee39d5d.js"></script>

As background, `mock` from `aws-sdk-mock` takes three arguments, the third of which is a function that, in the case of mocking [sendEmail](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/SES.html#sendEmail-property), takes the email params and a callback. The callback itself takes two arguments - an error message and data from the response.

I received a comment from my boss on this code review to the effect that every time I was using `callsFake`, I could just be using [`callsArgWith`](http://sinonjs.org/releases/v3.0.0/stubs/). The [documentation](http://sinonjs.org/releases/v3.0.0/stubs/) for `callsArgWith` points to `callsArg`:

> stub.callsArgWith(index, arg1, arg2, ...)
>
> Like callsArg, but with arguments to pass to the callback.
>
> stub.callsArg(index)
>
> Causes the stub to call the argument at the provided index as a callback function. stub.callsArg(0); causes the stub to call the first argument as a callback.
>


It made sense - my only goal was to fake invoking the callback `sendEmail` takes following resolution of the email `Promise`. Giving it an error didn't require passing in a new function to `callsFake` - `sinon` already offers this functionality:

```
sendEmailStub = sandbox.stub().callsArgWith(1, new Error());
```

And because you're always one click a way in your IDE from [seeing the source](https://github.com/sinonjs/sinon/blob/master/lib/sinon/default-behaviors.js#L55) in `node_modules`:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/BenBrostoff/14244abba5cb9ee47dac6884bc862abf.js"></script>

after which there's an easy path to cloning the source repo and after some investigation finding your way to `callCallback` in `lib/sinon/behavior.js`, which gets the callback using `callArgAt` set in the source we looked at, which then takes the `callbackArguments` sans the `fake` and `position` arguments passed in `callsArgWith` (note the function signature in the docs differs from what is the source - this is because [`addBehavior`](https://github.com/sinonjs/sinon/blob/master/lib/sinon/behavior.js#L204) will always add functions to the stub prototype with the first argument being the stub itself).  

Finally, [here's the test in `sinon`](https://github.com/sinonjs/sinon/blob/master/test/stub-test.js#L574), clearly demonstrating that a callback passed as the second argument to a stub should be able to be passed any argument with `callsArgWith`:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/BenBrostoff/5951ea3710240f413739438620148022.js"></script>

In looking at the `sinon` docs and then the Amazon SES docs, I realized there was probably an ocean of API functionality I was not taking advantage of. And the only way to find out would be to study and experiment. Which is the fun of being an engineer.

I bring up this example because I think it illustrates the importance of reading documentation (and even better, source code). I was familiar with `callsFake`, so every testing situation looked like a nail to its hammer. This is what happens when API docs are read quickly and with the intent of completing a task. The cost is that robust APIs are used incorrectly, and code that should be short and sweet becomes long and ugly.

I know this seems obvious, but I wanted to write about it because I know there are different gradients of RTD. In banking, you might read the earnings call transcript but not the 10-Q; only the part of the S-1 with the risks to the business; the first tab of the huge Excel model.

In programming, there's cherry-picking documentation; reading the documentation without the source code; starting a project with "getting started" documentation and never revisiting the docs again, and so much more.

A lot of this can be argued against with allusions to time management principles. How am I supposed to get anything done if I'm reading forty thousands pages of documentation and source code? Obviously, reading all the documentation - especially for something like the AWS SDK - is impossible. But transferring a 3 hour chunk of time from 70 / 30 writing code / reading docs to 65 / 35 writing code / reading docs?

You might end up improving your code and reading some interesting source code from a great library  
